=head1 NAME

DBIx::Class::AuditLog - Simple activity audit logging for DBIx::Class

=head1 SYNOPSIS

Enable the AuditLog schema component in your L<DBIx::Class::Schema> class file:

    package My::Schema;
    use base qw/DBIx::Class::Schema/;

    __PACKAGE__->load_components(qw/Schema::AuditLog/);

Enable the AuditLog component in your the individual L<DBIx::Class> table class files that you want to enable logging on:

    package My::Schema::Result::Table
    use base qw/DBIx::Class::Core/;
 
    __PACKAGE__->load_components(qw/AuditLog/);

In your application wrap any insert/update/delete in a transaction to have audit logging activated:

    $my_schema->txn_do(
        sub {
            $my_row->update({ ... });
        }
    );

Optionally pass an extra hashref to the txn_do method to indicate a user and/or a description for the transaction:

    $my_schema->txn_do(
        sub {
            $my_row->update({ ... });
        },
        {
            user => 'username_or_id',
            description => 'description of transaction'
        }
    );

=head1 DESCRIPTION

DBIx::Class::AuditLog is meant for tracking changes made to specific tables in your database.

Any insert/update/delete that requires auditing must be wrapped in a L<"txn_do"|DBIx::Class::Schema/"txn_do"> statement.

Transactions are saved as Changesets.  Each Changeset can have many Actions.  An Action can be of type insert/update/delete.  Actions can have many Changes. Changes show the data that was changed during an action.

=head1 TABLE STRUCTURE

The AuditLog schema is a self-contained schema that keeps no relationships to your main schema.

The AuditLog schema consists of 6 tables:

=over 4

=item User

This table contains a unique list of users that have executed transactions.  The 'name' field is used to store the User identifier.  This could be used for a user's name or id or other unique identifier as needed.

This table does not get a relationship to any table in your main schema.

=item Changeset

An L<AuditLogChangeset|DBIx::Class::AuditLog::Schema::Structure::Changeset> is an identifier for a transaction.  It can have many L<Actions|DBIx::Class::AuditLog::Schema::Structure::Action>.  It can optionally be owned by a L<User|DBIx::Class::AuditLog::Schema::Structure::User>.  And optionally have a description.

=item Action

An L<AuditLogAction|DBIx::Class::AuditLog::Schema::Structure::Action> is an insert/update/delete belonging to a L<Changeset|DBIx::Class::AuditLog::Schema::Structure::Changeset>.  It is also owned by L<Table|DBIx::Class::AuditLog::Schema::Structure::AuditedTable>.

=item Change

An L<AuditLogChange|DBIx::Class::AuditLog::Schema::Structure::Change> contains changed data for one AuditLogField in an AuditLogAction.  The original value is stored in the old_value field and the new value is stored in the new_value field.

=item AuditedTable

An L<AuditLogAuditedTable|DBIx::Class::AuditLog::Schema::Structure::AuditedTable> contains a unique list of tables that are being tracked.  The name field contains the name of a table from your database.  AuditLogAuditedTable rows are added as needed whenever an insert/update/date occurs.

Note: at least for DB2, the table name has the schema name added as well, eg., myschema.foo for the foo table in schema myschema.

=item Field

An L<AuditLogField|DBIx::Class::AuditLog::Schema::Structure::Field> contains a unique list of fields for each table that is being audited.  The name field contains the name of a field from a specific table inyour database.  AuditLogField rows are added as needed whenever an insert/update/date occurs.

=back

=head1 DEPLOYMENT

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over 4

=item * L<DBIx::Class>

=item * L<DBIx::Class::Journal>

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Mark Jubenville <ioncache@gmail.com>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENCE

This software is copyright (c) 2012 by Mark Jubenville.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut